DFS traversal visualization of euler tour (#787)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: content/4_Gold/Tree_Euler.mdx

### Implementation

> After running $\text{dfs}()`, each range `[st[i], en[i]]` contains all ranges `[st[j], en[j]]` for each `j` in the subtree of `i`. Also, $\texttt{en}[i]-st[i]+1` is equal to the subtree size of `i`.

Reviewer: Also you forgot to use closing $s here (you used ` instead)

> After running $\text{dfs}()$, each range `[st[i], en[i]]` contains all ranges `[st[j], en[j]]` for each `j` in the subtree of `i`. Also, $\texttt{en}[i]-st[i]+1$ is equal to the subtree size of `i`.

Reviewer: You forgot \texttt for the second st[i]. Also, maybe use latex instead of code for [st[i], en[i]] for consistency?

Author: good idea

Author: texified the node numbers too (i think there is clear enough distinction but maybe we want to make it more emphasized?)

Reviewer: Looks good. Can you also just add "node" to things like "because 2 has no children" to make it "because **node** 2 has no children" please?

          4
        </text>
      </g>
      <defs>
        <clipPath id="i">
          <path transform="translate(767.5 634.816)" d="M0 0h30v65.367H0z"/>
        </clipPath>
      </defs>
    </g>
    <g>
      <mask id="j">
        <circle vector-effect="non-scaling-stroke" cx="1119.5" cy="667.5" r="64.5" fill="#fff"/>
      </mask>
      <circle vector-effect="non-scaling-stroke" cx="1119.5" cy="667.5" r="64.5" fill="none"/>
      <circle vector-effect="non-scaling-stroke" cx="1119.5" cy="667.5" r="64.5" fill="none" mask="url(#j)" stroke-width="10" stroke-linecap="square" stroke-miterlimit="3"/>
      <g clip-path="url(#k)">
        <text transform="translate(1104.5 686.121)" font-family="Arial, Helvetica" font-weight="700" font-size="48">
          3
        </text>
      </g>
      <defs>
        <clipPath id="k">
          <path transform="translate(1104.5 634.816)" d="M0 0h30v65.367H0z"/>
        </clipPath>
      </defs>
    </g>
    <path vector-effect="non-scaling-stroke" stroke-width="5" stroke-linecap="square" stroke-miterlimit="3" d="M835 356l-174-63M1058 674l-212-3M1085 615L938 420M1141 610l69-213"/>
  </g>
</svg>

</center>

> Before our `dfs`, our `st` and `en` arrays are initialized with zeros. In this visualization, the first row represents the node indices, the second row represents the `st` array, and the third represents `en`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before the DFS, our `st` and `en` arrays are initialized with zeros. In this visualization, the first row represents the node indices, the second row represents the `st` array, and the third represents `en`.
```

> Current timer value: 0

Reviewer: Make these bold

Author: gotcha

Author: is \texttt ok with you

Reviewer: Yeah that's fine too

Reviewer: You still haven't made the "Current timer value: X" lines bold

<center>
<table className="text-center">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Node Index</td><td>1</td><td>2</td><td>3</td><td>4</td><td>5</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>st[i]</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>en[i]</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</center>

> Since we call `dfs(1, 0)`, our timer starts at `st[1]` and sets it to the current value of 0. Then, we proceed to `dfs()` nodes 2 and 3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since we call `dfs(1, 0)`, our timer starts at `st[1]` and sets it to the current value of 0. Then, we proceed to call `dfs(2, 1)` and `dfs(3, 1)`.
```

Current timer value: 1

<center>
<table className="text-center">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Node Index</td><td>1</td><td>2</td><td>3</td><td>4</td><td>5</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>st[i]</td><td className='bg-green-100 dark:bg-green-700'>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>en[i]</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</center>

> Now we must resolve `dfs(2, 1)` and `dfs(3, 1)`. It does not matter which order we process these in, so for this example we start with `dfs(2, 1)`. Since the timer is at `1`, we set `st[2]=1`. However, because `2` has no children, we don't call `dfs`. Instead, we set `en[2]=1` because our current timer is `2`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we must resolve `dfs(2, 1)` and `dfs(3, 1)`. It does not matter which order we process these in, so for this example, we start with `dfs(2, 1)`. Since the timer is at `1`, we set `st[2]=1`. However, because `2` has no children, we don't call `dfs`. Instead, we set `en[2]` to 1 because our current timer is 2.
```

> Now we must resolve `dfs(2, 1)` and `dfs(3, 1)`. It does not matter which order we process these in, so for this example, we start with `dfs(2, 1)`. Since the timer is at `1`, we set `st[2]=1`. However, because `2` has no children, we don't call `dfs`. Instead, we set `en[2]` to 1 because our current timer is 2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we must resolve `dfs(2, 1)` and `dfs(3, 1)`. It does not matter which order we process these in, so for this example, we start with `dfs(2, 1)`. Since the timer value is 1, we set `st[2]` to 1 and increment the timer. However, because `2` has no children, we don't call `dfs`. Instead, we set `en[2]` to 1 because our current timer is now 2.
```

Current timer value: 2

<center>
<table className="text-center">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Node Index</td><td>1</td><td>2</td><td>3</td><td>4</td><td>5</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>st[i]</td><td>0</td><td className='bg-green-100 dark:bg-green-700'>1</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>en[i]</td><td>0</td><td className='bg-red-100 dark:bg-red-700'>1</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</center>

> Now we must resolve `dfs(3, 1)`. Similar to before, we set `st[3]=timer` which in this case is 2. Then, we proceed to make the calls `dfs(4, 3)` and `dfs(5, 3)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we must resolve `dfs(3, 1)`. Similar to before, we set `st[3]` to the value of the timer, which is 2 in this case. Then, we proceed to make the calls `dfs(4, 3)` and `dfs(5, 3)`.
```

> Now we must resolve `dfs(3, 1)`. Similar to before, we set `st[3]` to the value of the timer, which is 2 in this case. Then, we proceed to make the calls `dfs(4, 3)` and `dfs(5, 3)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we must resolve `dfs(3, 1)`. Similar to before, we set `st[3]` to the value of the timer (2 in this case) and increment the timer. Then, we proceed to make the calls `dfs(4, 3)` and `dfs(5, 3)`.
```

Current timer value: 3

<center>
<table className="text-center">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Node Index</td><td>1</td><td>2</td><td>3</td><td>4</td><td>5</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>st[i]</td><td>0</td><td>1</td><td className='bg-green-100 dark:bg-green-700'>2</td><td>0</td><td>0</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>en[i]</td><td>0</td><td>1</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</center>

> Now we must resolve `dfs(4, 3)` and `dfs(5, 3)`. First, we resolve `dfs(4, 3)` by setting `st[node]=timer`, which in this case means `st[4]=3`. Then, since `4` has no children, `en[4]=3`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we must resolve `dfs(4, 3)` and `dfs(5, 3)`. First, we resolve `dfs(4, 3)` by setting `st[4]` to the value of the timer, which is 3 in this case. Then, since `4` has no children, set `en[4]` to 3.
```

> Now we must resolve `dfs(4, 3)` and `dfs(5, 3)`. First, we resolve `dfs(4, 3)` by setting `st[4]` to the value of the timer, which is 3 in this case. Then, since `4` has no children, set `en[4]` to 3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we must resolve `dfs(4, 3)` and `dfs(5, 3)`. First, we resolve `dfs(4, 3)` by setting `st[4]` to the value of the timer (3 in this case) and incrementing the timer. Then, since `4` has no children, set `en[4]` to 3.
```

> Now the value of the timer is `4`, and we must resolve `dfs(5, 3)`. Similar to before, we set `st[5]=4`. Since `5` also has no children, `en[5]=4`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now the value of the timer is 4, and we must resolve `dfs(5, 3)`. Similar to before, we set `st[5]` to 4. Since `5` also has no children, set `en[5]` to 4.
```

Current timer value: 5

<center>
<table className="text-center">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Node Index</td><td>1</td><td>2</td><td>3</td><td>4</td><td>5</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>st[i]</td><td>0</td><td>1</td><td>2</td><td className='bg-green-100 dark:bg-green-700'>3</td><td className='bg-green-100 dark:bg-green-700'>4</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>en[i]</td><td>0</td><td>1</td><td>0</td><td className='bg-red-100 dark:bg-red-700'>3</td><td className='bg-red-100 dark:bg-red-700'>4</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</center>

> Now, we must traverse back up the `dfs` calls. One of these resolves node `3`, setting `en[3]=timer-1` or `en[3]=4`. We then do the same for node `1`, setting `en[1]=4`. Our DFS traversal is now complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, we must traverse back up the `dfs` calls. We first encounter and resolve node `3`, setting `en[3]` to 4. We then do the same for node `1`, setting `en[1]` to 4. Our DFS traversal is now complete.
```

What do you mean by "traverse back up the `dfs` calls"?

Author: complete the remaining `dfs()` method aka setting `en` , i'll reword though

Current timer value: 5

<center>
<table className="text-center">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Node Index</td><td>1</td><td>2</td><td>3</td><td>4</td><td>5</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>st[i]</td><td>0</td><td>1</td><td>2</td><td className='bg-green-100 dark:bg-green-700'>3</td><td className='bg-green-100 dark:bg-green-700'>4</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>en[i]</td><td>0</td><td>1</td><td>0</td><td className='bg-red-100 dark:bg-red-700'>3</td><td className='bg-red-100 dark:bg-red-700'>4</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</center>

Now, we must resolve the remaining $\texttt{en}[\text{node}] = \text{timer} - 1$ calls. We first encounter and resolve node `3`, setting $\texttt{en}[3]$ to 4. We then do the same for node `1`, setting $\texttt{en}[1]$ to 4. Our DFS traversal is now complete.

<center>
<table className="text-center">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Node Index</td><td>1</td><td>2</td><td>3</td><td>4</td><td>5</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>st[i]</td><td>0</td><td>1</td><td>2</td><td>3</td><td>4</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>en[i]</td><td className='bg-red-100 dark:bg-red-700'>5</td><td>1</td><td className='bg-red-100 dark:bg-red-700'>4</td><td>3</td><td>4</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</center>

### Solution - Subtree Queries

> Assumes that $\text{dfs}()$ code is included. Uses a segment tree.

Reviewer: This doesn't look right. I think find and replace did this
